[Term Entry] JavaScript Objects .freeze() method (#4038)
Codecademy/docs: content/javascript/concepts/objects/terms/freeze/freeze.md

---
Title: '.freeze()'
Description: 'This method is used to freeze an object and it returns the object that was passed to the function.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Applications'
Tags:
  - 'Properties'
  - 'Objects'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-javascript'
  - 'paths/create-a-back-end-app-with-javascript'
---

> The **`Object.freeze()`** method is used to freeze an object. Freezing an object does not allow new properties to be added to the object and prevents removing or altering the existing properties. `Object.freeze()` preserves the enumerability, configurability, writability, and prototype of the object. It returns the passed object and does not create a frozen copy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`Object.freeze()`** method is used to freeze an object. Freezing an object does not allow new properties to be added to the object and prevents removing or altering the existing properties. It preserves the enumerability, configurability, writability, and prototype of the object. It returns the passed object and does not create a frozen copy.
```

---
Title: '.freeze()'

> Description: 'This method is used to freeze an object. It returns the object that was passed to the function.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'This method is used to freeze an object and it returns the object that was passed to the function.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Applications'
Tags:
  - 'Properties'
  - 'Objects'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-javascript'
  - 'paths/create-a-back-end-app-with-javascript'
---

The **`Object.freeze()`** method is used to freeze an object. Freezing an object does not allow new properties to be added to the object and prevents removing or altering the existing properties. `Object.freeze()` preserves the enumerability, configurability, writability, and prototype of the object. It returns the passed object and does not create a frozen copy.

## Syntax

```pseudo
Object.freeze(obj)
```

`obj`: It is the object which has to be frozen.

## Examples

The following codes demonstrate a basic implementation of the `Object.freeze()` method:

### Example 1

In this example, the object `obj2` has been assigned property from object `obj1`, and the properties of `obj1` are frozen therefore new properties and values are prevented from being added to `obj2`:

```js
// creating an object constructor and assigning values to it 
const obj1 = { property1: 'initial_data' }; 

> // creating a second object which will freeze 
> // the properties of the first object 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// creating a second object that will freeze the properties of the first object 
```

const obj2 = Object.freeze(obj1); 

// Updating the properties of the frozen object 
obj2.property1 = 'new_data';  
console.log(obj2.property1);
```

The above code snippet will return the following output:

```shell

> "initial_data"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
initial_data
```
This is the output I'm getting

**`Object.freeze()`** preserves the enumerability, configurability, writability, and prototype of the object. It returns the passed object and does not create a frozen copy.

## Syntax
```pseudo
Object.freeze(obj)
```
 - `obj`: It is the object which has to be frozen.

## Example

The following code demonstrates a basic implementation of the `Object.freeze()` method:

- ### Example 1:
  In this example, the object “obj2” has been assigned property from object “obj1”, and the properties of “obj1” are frozen therefore new properties and values are prevented from being added to “obj2”.
  
  ```js
  // creating an object constructor and assigning values to it 
  const obj1 = { property1: 'initial_data' }; 

  // creating a second object which will freeze 
  // the properties of the first object 
  const obj2 = Object.freeze(obj1); 

  // Updating the properties of the frozen object 
  obj2.property1 = 'new_data'; 

  // Displaying the properties of the frozen object 
  console.log(obj2.property1);
  ```

  The above code snippet will return the following output:

  ```shell
  "initial_data"
  ```

> - ### Example 2:
>   In this example, the object “obj” has been assigned “prop: function” which has been later deleted since the object “obj wasn’t frozen. After that, a new object “o” has been assigned the frozen values of “obj” which prevented it from further updations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Example 2

In this example, the object `obj` has been assigned `prop: function` which has been later deleted since the object `obj` wasn’t frozen. After that, a new object `o` has been assigned the frozen values of `obj` which prevented it from further updations:

```

---
Title: '.freeze()'
Description: 'This method is used to freeze an object. It returns the object that was passed to the function.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Applications'
Tags:
  - 'Properties'
  - 'Objects'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-javascript'
  - 'paths/create-a-back-end-app-with-javascript'
---

> The **`Object.freeze()`** method is used to freeze an object. Freezing an object does not allow new properties to be added to the object and prevents removing or altering the existing properties.
> **`Object.freeze()`** preserves the enumerability, configurability, writability, and prototype of the object. It returns the passed object and does not create a frozen copy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **`Object.freeze()`** method is used to freeze an object. Freezing an object does not allow new properties to be added to the object and prevents removing or altering the existing properties. `Object.freeze()` preserves the enumerability, configurability, writability, and prototype of the object. It returns the passed object and does not create a frozen copy.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
Object.freeze(obj)
```

- `obj`: It is the object which has to be frozen.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

## Examples

The following codes demonstrate a basic implementation of the `Object.freeze()` method:

- ### Example 1:

In this example, the object `obj2` has been assigned property from object `obj1`, and the properties of `obj1` are frozen therefore new properties and values are prevented from being added to `obj2`.

```js

> // creating an object constructor and assigning values to it 
> const obj1 = { property1: 'initial_data' }; 
> 
> // creating a second object which will freeze 
> // the properties of the first object 
> const obj2 = Object.freeze(obj1); 
> 
> // Updating the properties of the frozen object 
> obj2.property1 = 'new_data'; 
> 
> // Displaying the properties of the frozen object 
> console.log(obj2.property1);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// creating an object constructor and assigning values to it 
const obj1 = { property1: 'initial_data' }; 
// creating a second object that will freeze 
// the properties of the first object 
const obj2 = Object.freeze(obj1); 

// Updating the properties of the frozen object 
obj2.property1 = 'new_data'; 
console.log(obj2.property1);
```

```

The above code snippet will return the following output:

```shell
"initial_data"
```

> - ### Example 2:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

### Example 2:

```

> In this example, the object `obj` has been assigned `prop: function` which has been later deleted since the object `obj` wasn’t frozen. After that, a new object `o` has been assigned the frozen values of `obj` which prevented it from further updations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, the object `obj` has been assigned `prop: function` which has been later deleted since the object `obj` wasn’t frozen. After that, a new object `o` has been assigned the frozen values of `obj` which prevented it from further updations:
```

```js
// creating an object constructor and assigning values to it 
let obj = { prop: function () { }, name: 'adam' }; 

> // Displaying the properties of the object created 
> console.log(obj); 
> 
> // Updating the properties of the object 
> obj.name = 'billy'; 
> delete obj.prop; 
> // Displaying the updated properties of the object 
> console.log(obj); 
> 
> // Freezing the object using object.freeze() method 
> let o = Object.freeze(obj); 
> 
> // Updating the properties of the frozen object 
> obj.name = 'chris'; 
> 
> // Displaying the properties of the frozen object --> 
> console.log(obj);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
console.log(obj); 

// Updating the properties of the object 
obj.name = 'billy'; 
delete obj.prop; 
console.log(obj); 

// Freezing the object using object.freeze() method 
let o = Object.freeze(obj); 
// Updating the properties of the frozen object 
obj.name = 'chris'; 
console.log(obj);
```
Let's remove the comments over the console function

```
  

> The above code snippet will return the following output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above code snippet will return the following output:

```
